---
layout: post
title: "Word2Vec Embeddings"
date: 2021-1-4
excerpt: "The Word2Vec model has two variants, i.e. skip-gram and CBOW. The skip-gram model predicts context words given the target word and CBOW does the reverse."
tags: [word2vec, word_embedding, skip_gram, continuous_bag_of_words]
comments: false
---

### How to form the training set?

Denote the training set as $$D$$. For each sentence in our corpus, we set each word in the sentence as the target word. Then, given a context window size $$C$$, we select the left and right context words up to $$C$$ steps from the target word, e.g. for $$C = 2$$, we have:

```
{...} - target word
[...] - window context
C = 2

the [skip-gram model {predicts} context words] given the target word and CBOW does the reverse.

D = {...,
(predict, skip-gram),  
(predict, model),
(predict, context),
(predict, word),
...
}
```

The training set is formed by the (target-word, context-word) pairs. Mathematically, for $$i$$th sentence of length $$L_i$$,

$$
D_i = \{ 
(w_t, w_c) \vert t = 0, 1, ..., L_i; c = t-C, ..., t-1, t+1, ..., t+C
\}
$$

where $$w_t$$ and $$w_c$$ are one-hot encodings for the target word and the context word, respectively. Thus, $$D = \bigcup_i D_i$$. 

> **Note**: The stop words could be removed from the training set during preprocessing. 

### Skip-gram

Skip-gram is one of the unsupervised learning techniques used to find the most related words for a given word.

**1. Objective Function**: 

Let the target word embedding be $$x_t$$ and the context word embedding be $$x_c$$, then the closeness $$u_{c, t}$$ between $$x_c$$ and $$x_t$$ can be computed by *dot-product* such that $$u_{c, t} = x_c \cdot x_t$$. The objective is to maximise the conditional probability of the context words given the target word:

$$
P(\text{context} | w_t) = P(w_{t-C}, ..., w_{t-1}, w_{t+1},..., w_{t+C} | w_t) = \prod_{k \in \mathbf{Z} \cap [-C, C] \setminus \{0\}} P(w_{t+k} | w_t) 
$$

It is **equivalent** to maximize the following log expression with **softmax** implementation:

$$
\sum_{(w_t, w_c) \in D} \log P(w_c | w_t) = \sum_{(w_t, w_c) \in D} \log \frac{e^{u_{c, t}}}{\sum_{i=1}^{\lvert V \rvert} e^{u_i}}
$$

**2. Skip-gram Model**:

```

```




-----------

### References

- Mikolov, Tomas, Kai Chen, G. S. Corrado and J. Dean. “Efficient Estimation of Word Representations in Vector Space.” ICLR (2013).
